app/enterprise/2.1.x/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/enable-application-registration.md, before:

---
title: Enable Application Registration
---

## Introduction
Applications allow registered developers on Kong Developer Portal to
authenticate with OAuth2 against a Service on Kong. Either Kong or an
external identity provider
admins can selectively admit access to Services using Kong Manager.

## Prerequisites
* {{site.ee_product_name}} is installed, version 2.1.0.0 or newer.
* Developer Portal is enabled on the same Workspace as the Service.
* The Service is created and enabled with HTTPS.
* Authentication is enabled on the Developer Portal.
* Logged in as an admin with read and write roles on applications, services, and
  developers.
* The `portal_app_auth` configuration option is configured for your OAuth provider
  and strategy (`kong-oauth2` or `external-oauth2`). See
[Configure the Authorization Provider Strategy](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/#portal-app-auth) for the Portal Application Registration plugin.
* Authorization provider configured if using a supported third-party
identity provider with the OIDC plugin. For example instructions using Okta
as an identity provider, refer to the [Okta example](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/okta-config).

## Enable Application Registration on a Service using Kong Manager {#enable-app-reg-plugin}

To use Application Registration on a Service, the Portal Application Registration
Plugin must be enabled on a Service.

In Kong Manager, access the Service for which you want to enable Application Registration:

1. From your Workspace, in the left navigation pane, go to **API Gateway > Services**.
2. On the Services page, select the Service and click **View**.
3. In the Plugins pane in the Services page, click **Add a Plugin**.
4. On the Add New Plugin page in the Authentication section, find the
   **Portal Application Registration** Plugin and click **Enable**.

   ![Portal Application Registration](/assets/images/docs/dev-portal/app-reg-plugin-panel.png)

5. Enter the configuration settings. Use the parameters in the next section,
   [Application Registration Configuration Parameters](#application-registration-configuration-parameters),
   to complete the fields.

   ![Create application-registration plugin](/assets/images/docs/dev-portal/create-app-reg-plugin-form.png)

6. Click **Create**.

### Application Registration Configuration Parameters

#### Service

**Required**

Select the Service that this plugin configuration will target.

#### Tags

An optional set of strings for grouping and filtering, separated by commas.

#### Auto Approve {#aa}

Default: `false`

If enabled, all new Service contract requests are automatically
approved. Otherwise, Dev Portal admins must manually approve requests.

#### Description

Default: none

Unique description displayed in the information about a Service in the Developer Portal.

#### Display Name

**Required**

Unique display name used for a Service in the Developer Portal.

#### Show issuer {#show-url-issuer}

Default: `false`

Displays the Issuer URL in the Service Details. **Note:** Exposing
the Issuer URL is essential for the
[Authorization Code Flow](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/3rd-party-oauth/#ac-flow) workflow configured for third-party identity providers.

![Issuer URL](/assets/images/docs/dev-portal/dev-portal-issuer-url.png)

## Next steps

* If using the Kong-managed authorization strategy
(`kong-oauth2`), configure the OAuth2 plugin. You can use the Kong Manager GUI
or cURL commands as documented on the [Plugin Hub](/hub/kong-inc/oauth2).
* if using the third-party authorization strategy
(`external-oauth2`), configure the OIDC plugin. You can use the GUI or cURL
commands as documented on the plugin hub.

Commit message:

hybrid mode limitations; links; edits; char wrap

app/enterprise/2.1.x/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/enable-application-registration.md, after:

---
title: Enable Application Registration
---

## Introduction
Applications allow registered developers on Kong Developer Portal to
authenticate with OAuth2 against a Service on Kong. Either Kong or an
external identity provider
admins can selectively admit access to Services using Kong Manager.

## Prerequisites
* {{site.ee_product_name}} is installed, version 2.1.0.0 or newer.
* Developer Portal is enabled on the same Workspace as the Service.
* The Service is created and enabled with HTTPS.
* Authentication is enabled on the Developer Portal.
* Logged in as an admin with read and write roles on applications, services, and
  developers.
* The `portal_app_auth` configuration option is configured for your OAuth provider
  and strategy (`kong-oauth2` or `external-oauth2`). See
[Configure the Authorization Provider Strategy](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/#portal-app-auth) for the Portal Application Registration plugin.
* Authorization provider configured if using a supported third-party
identity provider with the OIDC plugin. For example instructions using Okta
as an identity provider, refer to the [Okta example](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/okta-config).

## Enable Application Registration on a Service using Kong Manager {#enable-app-reg-plugin}

To use Application Registration on a Service, the Portal Application Registration
Plugin must be enabled on a Service.

In Kong Manager, access the Service for which you want to enable Application Registration:

1. From your Workspace, in the left navigation pane, go to **API Gateway > Services**.
2. On the Services page, select the Service and click **View**.
3. In the Plugins pane in the Services page, click **Add a Plugin**.
4. On the Add New Plugin page in the Authentication section, find the
   **Portal Application Registration** Plugin and click **Enable**.

   ![Portal Application Registration](/assets/images/docs/dev-portal/app-reg-plugin-panel.png)

5. Enter the configuration settings. Use the parameters in the next section,
   [Application Registration Configuration Parameters](#application-registration-configuration-parameters),
   to complete the fields.

   ![Create application-registration plugin](/assets/images/docs/dev-portal/create-app-reg-plugin-form.png)

6. Click **Create**.

### Application Registration Configuration Parameters

#### Service

**Required**

Select the Service that this plugin configuration will target.

#### Tags

An optional set of strings for grouping and filtering, separated by commas.

#### Auto Approve {#aa}

Default: `false`

If enabled, all new Service contract requests are automatically
approved. Otherwise, Dev Portal admins must manually approve requests.

#### Description

Default: none

Unique description displayed in the information about a Service in the Developer Portal.

#### Display Name

**Required**

Unique display name used for a Service in the Developer Portal.

#### Show issuer {#show-url-issuer}

Default: `false`

Displays the Issuer URL in the Service Details. **Note:** Exposing
the Issuer URL is essential for the
[Authorization Code Flow](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/3rd-party-oauth/#ac-flow) workflow configured for third-party identity providers.

![Issuer URL](/assets/images/docs/dev-portal/dev-portal-issuer-url.png)

## Next steps

* If using the Kong-managed authorization strategy
(`kong-oauth2`, configure the OAuth2 plugin.
 You can use the Kong Manager GUI or cURL commands as documented on the
 [Plugin Hub](/hub/kong-inc/oauth2). This plugin cannot be used in hybrid mode.
* if using the third-party authorization strategy
(`external-oauth2`), configure the OIDC plugin. You can use the GUI or cURL
commands as documented on the [Plugin Hub](/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect). This
plugin must be used in hybrid mode.
