app/enterprise/2.1.x/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/index.md, before:

---
title: Authorization Provider Strategy for Application Registration
---

## Overview

In the 1.5.x beta version of the Application
Registration plugin, the feature was tightly coupled with OAuth2. Kong was the
only available system of record (SoR) for application credentials and the OAuth
configuration was done directly within the Application Registration plugin.

In the {{site.ee_product_name}} 2.1.x version, authentication has been decoupled from the
Application Registration plugin. Support has been added for third-party OAuth2
providers. Developers have the flexibility to choose from either
Kong or a third-party identity provider (IdP) as the system of record for
application credentials. With third-party (external) OAuth2 support, developers
can centralize application credential management with the
[supported identity provider](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/3rd-party-oauth#idps) of their
choice.

OAuth2 plugins for use with the Application Registration plugin:

- When Kong is the system of record, the Application Registration plugin works
in conjunction with the Kong OAuth2 plugin.

- When an external OAuth2 is the system of record, the Application Registration
plugin works in conjunction with the Kong OIDC plugin.

The third-party authorization strategy (`external-oauth2`) applies to all
applications across all Workspaces (Dev Portals) in a Kong cluster.

### Configure an auth provider strategy for Application Registration {#portal-app-auth}

The `portal_app_auth` configuration option must be set in `kong.conf` to enable
the Developer Portal Application Registration plugin with your chosen
authorization strategy.

Available options:

* `kong-oauth2`: Default. Kong is the system of record. The Application Registration plugin is used in conjunction with the Kong OAuth2 plugin.
* `external-oauth2`: An external IdP is the system of record. The Developer Portal Application Registration plugin is used in conjunction with the Kong OIDC plugin.

1. Open `kong.conf.default` and set the `portal_app_auth` option to your chosen strategy. The example configuration below switches from the default (`kong-oauth2`) to an external IdP (`external-oauth2`).

   ```
   portal_app_auth = external-oauth2
            # Developer Portal application registration
            # auth provider and strategy. Must be set to configure the
            # application_registration plugin.
            # Currently accepts kong-oauth2 (default) or external-oauth2.
   ```

2. Restart your Kong Enterprise instance.

### Next steps

1. If you plan to use external OAuth, review the
[recommended workflows](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/3rd-party-oauth#supported-oauth-flows).
Configure the identity provider for your application, configure your
application in Kong, and associate them with each other. See the [Okta example](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/okta-config).
2. Enable the [Application Registration plugin](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/enable-application-registration) on a Service.
3. Depending on your configured authentication strategy, configure the Kong
[OAuth2](/hub/kong-inc/oauth2) or
Kong [OIDC](/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect/) plugin on the same Service as the
Application Registration plugin.

Commit message:

hybrid mode limitations; links; edits; char wrap

app/enterprise/2.1.x/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/index.md, after:

---
title: Authorization Provider Strategy for Application Registration
---

## Overview

In the 1.5.x beta version of the Application
Registration plugin, the feature was tightly coupled with OAuth2. Kong was the
only available system of record (SoR) for application credentials and the OAuth
configuration was done directly within the Application Registration plugin.

In the {{site.ee_product_name}} 2.1.x version, authentication has been decoupled from the
Application Registration plugin. Support has been added for third-party OAuth2
providers. Developers have the flexibility to choose from either
Kong or a third-party identity provider (IdP) as the system of record for
application credentials. With third-party (external) OAuth2 support, developers
can centralize application credential management with the
[supported identity provider](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/3rd-party-oauth#idps)
of their choice.

OAuth2 plugins for use with the Application Registration plugin:

- When Kong is the system of record, the Application Registration plugin works
  in conjunction with the Kong OAuth2 plugin.

  **Note:** The Kong OAuth2 plugin does not support
  [hybrid mode](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/deployment/hybrid-mode/).
  If your organization uses hybrid mode, you must use an external identity
  provider and configure the Kong OIDC plugin.

- When an external OAuth2 is the system of record, the Application Registration
  plugin works in conjunction with the Kong OIDC plugin.

The third-party authorization strategy (`external-oauth2`) applies to all
applications across all Workspaces (Dev Portals) in a Kong cluster.

### Configure an auth provider strategy for Application Registration {#portal-app-auth}

The `portal_app_auth` configuration option must be set in `kong.conf` to enable
the Developer Portal Application Registration plugin with your chosen
authorization strategy.

Available options:

* `kong-oauth2`: Default. Kong is the system of record. The Application
  Registration plugin is used in conjunction with the Kong OAuth2 plugin. This
  option cannot be used with hybrid mode deployments.
* `external-oauth2`: An external IdP is the system of record. The Developer
  Portal Application Registration plugin is used in conjunction with the Kong
  OIDC plugin. This option must be used with hybrid mode deployments.

1. Open `kong.conf.default` and set the `portal_app_auth` option to your chosen
   strategy. The example configuration below switches from the default
   (`kong-oauth2`) to an external IdP (`external-oauth2`).

   ```
   portal_app_auth = external-oauth2
            # Developer Portal application registration
            # auth provider and strategy. Must be set to configure the
            # application_registration plugin.
            # Currently accepts kong-oauth2 (default) or external-oauth2.
   ```

2. [Restart](https://docs.konghq.com/2.1.x/cli/#kong-restart) your Kong Enterprise
   instance.

### Next steps

1. If you plan to use external OAuth, review the
[recommended workflows](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/3rd-party-oauth#supported-oauth-flows).
Configure the identity provider for your application, configure your
application in Kong, and associate them with each other. See the
[Okta example](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/okta-config).
2. Enable the [Application Registration plugin](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/enable-application-registration) on a Service.
3. Depending on your configured authentication strategy, configure the Kong
[OAuth2](/hub/kong-inc/oauth2) or
Kong [OIDC](/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect/) plugin on the same Service as the
Application Registration plugin.
